>> Steve Kinney: My name is Steve, we're
gonna talk a little bit about some of
the tools around building
your own language.
We'll talk about it from
a few different angles today.
The repository we're gonna be
using today is right here,
we're gonna make a little
language called dropbear.
I'll explain what a dropbear is
when it's time, not beforehand.
As I mentioned, my name is Steve,
and I work at Twilio SendGrid,
Senior Principal Engineer which is
really hard to say multiple times,
quickly but you know.
Basically if you ever get a text that
was sent by a software program or
an email, we probably sent it to you
through now our new combined business.
I work on the marketing campaigns product,
which is kind of like a in-browser,
HTML editor built in react.
And as I'll mention
a few times during this,
a lot, this came out of having
to do a lot of parsing,
and compiling in my day to day, right?
And so seeing how some of these things,
we're gonna kinda look at it
through playing with a language,
but these are things that I have
solved actual problems with.
Not that building a language isn't solving
the problem of scratching your niche or
anything like that, but you can also
do it at work, which is kind of cool.
The good news is as long as you
rein in your ambitions, right?
Many of the really popular languages
that we use are someone's full-time job.
And usually not just
someone's full-time job,
a team of someones' full-time job, right?
Usually with doctorates, and
stuff along those lines.
The good news is that you don't need a
doctorate to use a lot of these techniques
and tools, you don't need it to build
your own little language as a hobby and
you don't need it to solve very real
problems in your day to day lives.
A language or any of these parsers or
compilers are just programs in and
of themselves.
They're no different than the software
that we write on a day to day basis.
So why would we want to do any of this?
You may not want to write your own
programming language, it's not like,
I'm gonna quit my job.
I'm gonna sit down and
I'm going to write the new language that's
gonna change everything versus
the one that changed everything was
written by some dude in ten days,
and two plus two equals two.
So there's some very kinda
practical use cases.
In fact, you probably use some of
these tools on a day to day basis,
whether it's something like Terraform.
We do all of our deployment with
this idea of code is infrastructure.
So we can write basically what databases
we need, how many Amazon EC2 instances.
So on and so forth, and
that gets parsed, and
commands just have to configure
all of our infrastructure.
Even figuring your dependencies,
in npm, it's a JSON file and
it's pretty standard, but
a gemfile, or a TUML.
Or anything along those lines need
parsers to figure out what's going on,
they need to be evaluated
to do their thing.
Templating languages are near and
dear to my heart.
And a lot of the problems that I have
needed to solve and templating languages
are really great because they
like to flex that muscle a lot.
And also our very confined space
of what you know you need to do.
They're a really great place to start.
Also, it's kind of fun.
I think it's fun.
It's one of those kind of
fun that hurts sometimes.
[LAUGH] It gives you a headache,
but it's a lot of fun.
The kind of meta point is that there's
a bunch of different techniques that
we're gonna kind of explore throughout
our brief time together today.
Any one of those kinda
individual pieces can even
be used in isolation to solve
practical problems for yourself.
So what do we do with
some of these techniques?
I didn't know that I'd be writing so
many parsers when I started
to work on an email editor.
Our original version of the editor,
years ago, was jQuery and CoffeeScript and
when you made changes to the email,
we literally manipulated the DOM,
and that's how we stored
everything as one big HTML file.
And like most things,
you can't really change an API.
So as we built newer and
newer versions of the product,
basically the API was giving
us back a full HTML file.
But the new versions didn't react,
in the Redux store,
that's not a lot of DOM
manipulation going on there.
We basically need to
take that HTML file and
turn it into like a large
kind of tree like structure.
Yeah, we can pass into React components.
The first time around that we implemented
it, a few years ago, we're like, okay,
what we will do is we'll use jQuery and
we'll just start navigating the DOM to
find all the stuff that we need and then
we'll put it into the React components.
And that sounded really great.
Except for the fact that jQuery
makes real DOM nodes and
the browser tries to be helpful and
fix HTML for you.
Now, that seems great, good job jQuery.
The problem with that is that
we are trying to make emails for
Outlook 2013, which intentionally
needed broken DOM, [LAUGH] in
order to actually render correctly or
do anything along those lines.
So it was actually really problematic.
So when we do the new version, we actually
used a parser, broke into a large AST,
an abstract syntax tree,
started navigating and
traversing this data structure to do
all the manipulation that we need.
So we break into this data structure and
as the user starts tweaking things
in the sidebar, moving stuff around,
we're basically manipulating that tree and
moving stuff around with some of the same
techniques that we're gonna play
around with a little bit today.
We are also building a templating language
that started out kind of like Handlebars,
but it's kind of morphing
into its own thing.
And so we're able to even use
a lightweight version of some of these
techniques to put a layer over
Handlebars to kind of pre-compile it,
so that we could bring it to customers and
do our initial research before
having to build an entire thing.
And we just kind of used some very basic
parsing and moving stuff around in a tree
like structure again to
ship that really quickly.
We have a code editor where you can click
on the code and it brings you to that
place in the preview, you click on the
preview and it highlights that DOM node.
For that,
we basically have to pull apart the HTML,
annotate every DOM node with
where it was in the text file.
Again, very simple features that would
have been a lot more complicated if we
didn't have some of these
tools at our disposal.
On top of that, we have a custom query
language that looks like SQL for making
segments of your customers to trigger
automated messages to along those lines.
[LAUGH] First, just take an arbitrary
SQL off the Internet and
executing it, not okay.
But also, it is a custom language that we
have to actually parse in JavaScript and
zeros in Java as well go
on the back end as well.
And so there's tons of places in just day
to day features for us that we end up
using these things, and so, yeah, whether
or not it's your own full language,
there's still also a lot of just
practical day to day places.
So my goal is to take the pieces of
this workshop as inspiration either
to build an entire language or
to solve problems easily and
probably in a more sustainable way.
We haven't had to go back and change
a lot of that code like we used to when
we're either trying to RegEx it to death,
or
whatever other fun techniques
we were trying at the time.
It ended up being some
of our more stable code.
And there's also a lot of tools that we
all use, we use PostCSS or Babel JSX.
That's all using the same
kind of techniques.
So we're surrounded by it all the time.
And it's good to know how the tools
that we're using every day work.